# forTDMP

These observation files were generated by a script (obs80_find_COIAS.py  obs80_find_ast_COIAS.py  mpcorrb_find.py from https://github.com/dkbk/misc_coias/tree/master/python )created by one of the COIAS users for organizing observation reports and modified for the TDMP.

## How do you make use of your files?
If you download the following file, you can enter the contents of the file into WAMO at any time you like to know when a reported object from the DMP has already been identified as a known object, given a new provisonal code, given a number, etc.
However, it is not possible to look at statistics for individual outcomes or for each object's trajectory, as D-2 used to do.

## DMP_itfxxxxxx.txt (xxxxxx:date of update)
The observations reported by the TDMP were extracted from the ITF ( https://minorplanetcenter.net/iau/ITF/itf.txt.gz ) using a script from obs80_find_COIAS.py with '4' replaced by '0' and “T09” replaced by “G96” in line 26. and like
> $ python3 obs80_find_DMP.py itf.txt DMP_itf241021.txt

## DMP_Unn_MPCxxxxxx.txt (xxxxxx:date of recent Minor Planet Circular update)
This is an observation file that was reported as an undiscovered object by the TDMP, but was subsequently identified as a provisioal code object. Some of these objects were discovered at other observatories, while others are TDMP discovery observations (or more precisely, Initial Reports).This file was generated from UnnObs.txt ( https://data.minorplanetcenter.net/iau/ECS/MPCAT-OBS/UnnObs.txt.gz ) from the MPCAT-OBS service using a script from obs80_find_COIAS.py with '4' replaced by '0' and “T09” replaced by “G96” in line 26. and like
> python3 obs80_find_COIAS.py UnnObs.txt DMP_Unn_MPC240913.txt

Included in MPCAT's UnnObs file are observations of unnumbered objects for decades reported to MPC to date, up to the time the most recent circular was issued.
Since the file size of Unnobs.txt is also large, the following shell script is used in Powershell to split the file in advance so that the python script does not stop in the middle. (In this case, be careful to run the python script with the filename after splitting.)
> $i=0; Get-Content UnnObs.txt -ReadCount 10000000 | % { Write-Output $_ | Out-File -Encoding default UnnObs$i.txt  ;$i++ }

## DMP_MPSxxxxxx.txt (xxxxxx:date of MPS update)
DMP_Unn_MPCxxxxxxxx.txt does not contain any observations since the last circular was issued, which means that it does not contain observations from the last two months at most. On the other hand, observations since the issuance of the circular are released every few weeks in the MPS.　
Therefore, in this DMP_MPS.txt, we have taken the observations from the MPS file( https://data.minorplanetcenter.net/iau/ECS/MPCUPDATE/MidMonthMPS.html ) since the last circular was published that have been identified with some object since it was reported in the TDMP.
Unlike other files, this file also contains Numbered Objects. The process is the same: extract them from the MPS file using a script from obs80_find_COIAS.py with '4' replaced by '0' and “T09” replaced by “G96” in line 26.like
> python3 obs80_find_COIAS.py t0t_00.obs DMP_MPS241011.txt 

## DMP_ast.txt
From DMP_Unn_MPCxxxxxxxx.txt and all DMP_MPSxxxxxxxx.txt, we extracted the lines where TDMP is tentatively designated as the finder (or more accurately, the initial reporter) and the observation is marked with *. Thus, the number of lines in this file corresponds to the number of provisional code objects discovered by DMP.
This is the output file from the two files above that were generated using the script from obs80_find_ast_COIAS.py with '4' replaced by '0' and “T09” replaced by “G96” in line 26. like
> python3 obs80_find_ast_COIAS.py DMP_Unn_MPC240913.txt DMP_ast.txt 

## DMP_ORB.txt 
This is a list about the trajectories of objects found by DMP, made by matching the objects in DMP_astxxxxxxxx.txt with MPCORB (https://www.minorplanetcenter.net/iau/MPCORB/MPCORB.DAT.gz). The format is the same as (https://www.minorplanetcenter.net/iau/info/MPOrbitFormat.html ). Generated from DMP_astxxxxxxxx.txt using the script mpcorb_find.py.like
> python3 mpcorb_find.py MPCORB.DAT DMP_ast.txt DMP_ORB.txt

## Note:Numbered Object
The file size is too large (probably about 35 GB), so objects that were identified as number-registered objects after they were reported from the DMP are not included. If there is a problem due to this, it is that the DMP may have missed objects that were discovered and given numbers by the DMP. If such an object were real, it would be a serious problem, but I expect that no object has yet been given a number with the DMP as the discoverer.
If the numbers are given by October 2024, when I started this work, I have no choice but to make sure that when I update DMP_ast.txt, I do not overwrite the file and can check the differences with the old file, in case there is a numbering assignment in the future. Failure to do so may result in missing the new numbers, as numbered objects will be deleted from UnnObs.txt unnoticed.
